# Spaceship-Odyssey

Names: Chris, Nic, Ian, Jason

Game: SpaceStation Odyssey

Mechanics: In this game, the player controls an astronaut in a 2D space. The character is controlled by “flinging:” clicking and dragging in a given direction, which sets the character’s velocity. The character, will continue moving in that direction until redirected or stopped. The player can also use the spacebar to “brake”. To initiate an activity, the player can press ‘E’ when in range. A clock in the corner will remind players of the limited amount of time they have to engage with a number of activities, each it’s own short minigame. The player will have to manage stress and homesickness, which hinder the player’s ability to make progress. The player must also choose when and how long to sleep, which will have consequences on the character’s speed and available activities. Once time is up, based on how much time was spent doing each activity, a different ending is shown.

Gameplay: The movement of the character through the station is meant to simulate what motion is like in a zero gravity environment. Players can set themselves in motion in a direction, and slow down by touching the side of the craft, thus adding drag from friction. Our take on the theme of fitting is the challenge of “fitting” things into a limited amount of time. The player is given 24 in-game hours (~6? minutes real time) to spend each day doing whatever they want around the station. Importantly, the player has to make choices about what to do with their day. If they choose to spend a lot of time studying or working out, they may have less time to make an invention, or conduct impactful research. Stress and homesickness will need to be tended to periodically with stress-relieving activities and communication with family. 

Experience: The idea behind this game is to make players think about how they spend their actual lives. The game will at times feel a bit tense, with the clock always ticking down. However, players will feel curious about what they can spend their time doing, and how it will affect their outcome at the end. Each ending is meant to reward players for what they were able to accomplish, but also make them curious about what else they could have achieved, prompting multiple playthroughs. Although our main focus is the theme of “fitting it in” to a schedule, the game also reflects the idea of “missing” through the homesickness mechanic. Players will be able to relate with the main character’s feelings of missing family and friends as they manage the character’s emotions.


Here on humanity’s most advanced space station, the impact of everything you do is multiplied by hundreds compared to on Earth. Working out makes you that much stronger, studying makes you that much smarter, and each discovery made here improves the lives of that many more people. How you choose to spend your 5-day stay is completely up to you! But, there’s a catch: every day you spend here, 1 year passes on Earth. Who do you want to be once you return after 5 years?
